README.adoc, before:

= replant.vim: Regrowing again
Dominic Monroe <monroef4@googlemail.com>

// I'm trying one sentence per-line here.

____
Insert some unrelated quote about replanting a new world here
____

I accept link:https://github.com/clojure-emacs[clojure-emacs]footnote:[Only *-nrepl though, of course. The emacs part is just crazy]' hard work as necessary have nice things.
I wish to have more features in vim, and I'm willing to accept coupling to more nrepl middleware for it.
I'm a Neovim user, so would like to take advantage of new APIs to make developing vim plugins more powerful, or easy.

With that in mind, here's the tentative list of potential requirements for this plugin:

* Neovim
* link:https://github.com/clojure-emacs/cider-nrepl[CIDER-nrepl]
* link:https://github.com/clojure-emacs/refactor-nrepl[refactor-nrepl] (probably optional)

== Install

.vim-plug
[source,vim]
----
Plug 'SevereOverfl0w/replant'
Plug 'tpope/vim-fireplace'
----

== Features

* [ ] Enhanced Docs
** [*] Colourful echo'd output on `K`
** [ ] Open document with shortcuts to close, works with `keywordprg`
* [*] Refresh based on cider's built-in refresh

=== Refresh

`<localleader>rf` will perform a tools.namespace refresh, and `<localleader>ra` will perform a tools.namespace refresh-all.
It searches for your stop/start functions in various namespaces automatically.
If your stop/start functions are unique, you may set `g:replant_refresh_before_hook` and `g:replant_refresh_after_hook` to a symbol referring to your start/stop functions.
Let me know if you have a common stop/start function or namespace which my detection missed.

== Developing

I use link:https://squiddev.github.io/urn/[urn] to generate lua files from lisp.
This is fun. Don't doubt me.

.Generate lua files for release
[source]
----
$ make URNPATH=/home/dominic/src/gitlab.com/urn/urn
----

Commit message:

Add replant definition to README

README.adoc, after:

= replant.vim: Regrowing again
Dominic Monroe <monroef4@googlemail.com>

// I'm trying one sentence per-line here.

[quote,,Online Etymology Dictionary and Oxford Dictionary]
____
replant (v.)
1570s, from re- "back, again" + plant (v.).

Plant (a tree or plant that has been dug up) again, especially when transferring it to a larger pot or new site.
____

I accept link:https://github.com/clojure-emacs[clojure-emacs]footnote:[Only *-nrepl though, of course. The emacs part is just crazy]' hard work as necessary have nice things.
I wish to have more features in vim, and I'm willing to accept coupling to more nrepl middleware for it.
I'm a Neovim user, so would like to take advantage of new APIs to make developing vim plugins more powerful, or easy.

With that in mind, here's the tentative list of potential requirements for this plugin:

* Neovim
* link:https://github.com/clojure-emacs/cider-nrepl[CIDER-nrepl]
* link:https://github.com/clojure-emacs/refactor-nrepl[refactor-nrepl] (probably optional)

== Install

.vim-plug
[source,vim]
----
Plug 'SevereOverfl0w/replant'
Plug 'tpope/vim-fireplace'
----

== Features

* [ ] Enhanced Docs
** [*] Colourful echo'd output on `K`
** [ ] Open document with shortcuts to close, works with `keywordprg`
* [*] Refresh based on cider's built-in refresh

=== Refresh

`<localleader>rf` will perform a tools.namespace refresh, and `<localleader>ra` will perform a tools.namespace refresh-all.
It searches for your stop/start functions in various namespaces automatically.
If your stop/start functions are unique, you may set `g:replant_refresh_before_hook` and `g:replant_refresh_after_hook` to a symbol referring to your start/stop functions.
Let me know if you have a common stop/start function or namespace which my detection missed.

== Developing

I use link:https://squiddev.github.io/urn/[urn] to generate lua files from lisp.
This is fun. Don't doubt me.

.Generate lua files for release
[source]
----
$ make URNPATH=/home/dominic/src/gitlab.com/urn/urn
----
